*--------------Course Details--------------*

## Instructor: Jos√© Mota

## Difficulty: Beginner

## Source Files Location: https://github.com/tutsplus/learn-to-code-with-ruby

## Topic: Code

## Categories: Ruby, Programming Fundamentals, Terminal

## Software/Languages/Frameworks (include version): Ruby 2, Atom

## Course Rate: xxxx

*--------------Course Outline--------------*

# Course Name:

Learn to Code with Ruby

# Course Description:

This course will introduce you to the world of programming. It resorts to the
Ruby language to support learning the basics of programming.

# Source Files Description:

The source files contain the code that's executed in the lessons. Each file
matches a lesson. Some lessons didn't require a file.

*--------------Course--------------*

# 1 Introduction

## 1.1 Introduction

Welcome to the course! In this lesson you'll be given an introduction to the
topic of programming and to the expectations you will meet towards the end the
course.

## 1.2 Preparing a Ruby Working Environment

Programming requires some tools for accomplishing certain tasks. You will learn
the minimum set that's necessary to get started right away.

**Related links**

- [iTerm](http://iterm.com)
- [Gotham colorscheme for
  iTerm](https://github.com/whatyouhide/gotham-contrib/blob/master/iterm2/Gotham.itermcolors)
- [Atom text editor](http://atom.io)
- [RubyInstaller for Windows](http://rubyinstaller.org)
- [RVM for Linux or Mac OS X](http://rvm.io)

# 2 Programming Basics

## 2.1 What is Programming?

Excited to learn about programming? This lesson will briefly introduce what
programming is and explain the normal flow of a program being developed.

## 2.2 Standard Input and Output

Let's begin with the simplest, most classical challenge in programming. The
"Hello World" exercise is key to understand the most basic form of output.
We'll add some input from the keyboard too to complement the exercise.

## 2.3 Variables and Types

Variables are spread everywhere in programs. They hold data that needs to be
processed in one way or another. In this lesson, you will learn that there are
different kinds of variable types in most common languages. Specifically,
you'll learn which ones they are in Ruby.

## 2.4 Decision Making with Conditionals

If you want your program to do different things depending on the data that you
receive, you will need to distinguish operation flows with conditionals. You
will learn how to accomplish that in this lesson.

**Related links**

- [Convert a string to a
  number](http://ruby-doc.org/core-2.2.0/String.html#method-i-to_i)
- [Documentation on the if
  statement](http://ruby-doc.org/core-2.2.1/doc/syntax/control_expressions_rdoc.html#label-if+Expression)

## 2.5 Traversal and Automation with Loops and Blocks

If you'd like to accomplish the same task for a collection of different items,
or until a certain condition, you'll need a way to do that in a simple, dynamic
way. Enter loops. You will learn how to use them in Ruby in order to achieve
these goals.

**Related links**

- [Documentation on loops](http://ruby-doc.org/core-2.2.1/doc/syntax/control_expressions_rdoc.html#label-while+Loop)

## 2.6 Functions

Functions are as common as variables, you will be using them very often in your
programs. Their main use is to extract common and repeatable behavior into a
single place. You will learn how to define functions in Ruby, with or without
arguments, and how to call them.

# 3 Object-Oriented Programming

## 3.1 Classes and Objects

There are many different approaches to programming applications. One of them is
called "Object-Oriented Programming". You will learn the most fundamental
aspects of programming using this approach, through the definition of classes
and their instantiation through objects.

## 3.2 Modules

Modules in Ruby serve multiple purposes. They either act as a namespace, in
which classes and other modules can be nested, or they can hold functions that
can be included into classes. You'll see how you can replicate these features
in this lesson.

## 3.3 Exceptions

Not everything goes ok when trying to develop a program. Some errors occur in
the form of exceptions. In Ruby, exceptions are special classes that we can
capture, monitor and handle. In this lesson, you will learn by example how you
catch and raise those exceptions in your programs.

# 4 The Ruby Standard Library

## 4.1 Strings

In this chapter we'll showcase some important classes that you will use most of
the time. We'll begin with String which holds text. Because strings are
objects, they have methods of their own. We'll demonstrate some of them in this
lesson.

**Related links**

- [String reference](http://ruby-doc.org/core-2.2.0/String.html)

## 4.2 Arrays

Lists of items are really common in every program as they serve many different
applicabilities. They are usually enclosed in an array object. You will learn
some of the most common methods that belong to the Array class.

**Related links**

- [Array reference](http://ruby-doc.org/core-2.2.0/Array.html)

## 4.3 Hashes

Slightly different from arrays, hashes contain a collection of elements that
have an associated key, rather than an index. You will learn how to manipulate
these hashes as well as a selection of the most used methods.

**Related links**

- [Hash reference](http://ruby-doc.org/core-2.2.0/Hash.html)

# 5 Gems

## 5.1 Installing and Using a Gem

Now that you have some basics of programming, we can start delving on how to
use other people's code. You'll learn how to install and use a gem, which is a
library that someone else wrote and published into the general Ruby repository
called Rubygems.

**Related links**

- [Rake documentation](https://github.com/ruby/rake#readme)

# 6 Testing

## 6.1 Introduction to Testing with RSpec

Testing plays a big part in the Ruby community. It ensures that the code you
write for your programs is well thought out and that it works properly. In this
lesson you'll learn how to install a testing framework, how to bootstrap it
into your program's project folder and how to create and run tests against your
code.

**Related links**

- [RSpec website and documentation](http://rspec.info)
- [RSpec configuration original docs](http://rspec.info/documentation/3.2/rspec-core/RSpec/Core/Configuration.html)
- [RSpec configuration docs on Relish](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-core/v/3-2/docs/configuration)

# 7 Conclusion

## 7.1 Final Review

Thank you for taking the time in viewing this course. Be sure to give us
feedback or questions through Twitter. We hope you're excited to venture into
the programming world. See you soon!
